# 1642. Furthest Building You Can Reach

You are given an integer array `heights` representing the heights of buildings, some `bricks`, and some `ladders`.

You start your journey from building `0` and move to the next building by possibly using bricks or ladders.

While moving from building `i` to building `i+1` (**0-indexed**),

* If the current building's height is **greater than or equal** to the next building's height, you do **not** need a ladder or bricks.
* If the current building's height is **less than** the next building's height, you can either use **one ladder** or `(h[i+1] - h[i])` **bricks**.

_Return the furthest building index (0-indexed) you can reach if you use the given ladders and bricks optimally._

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= heights.length <= 105`
* `1 <= heights[i] <= 106`
* `0 <= bricks <= 109`
* `0 <= ladders <= heights.length`

**Example 2:**

```java
Input: heights = [4,12,2,7,3,18,20,3,19], bricks = 10, ladders = 2
Output: 7
```

**Example 3:**

```java
Input: heights = [14,3,19,3], bricks = 17, ladders = 0
Output: 3
```

{% hint style="info" %}
There are multiple ways to solve this problem.

The intuitive way is to use a min heap to record the differences between two moves, and apply the ladders and bricks to the minimum K moves, where **K = bricks + ladders**.

So, we can convert this problem to a "**find top K**" problem and solve it by min heap.

1. Since every time we use the ladders will consume one count of the ladders, we limit the size of the min heap to be less than the number of ladders.
2. Every time when we need to use bricks, it consumes height\[i + 1] - heights\[i] bricks. We subtract those bricks each time when we consume it until the count below 0, which means we can no longger move forward.
{% endhint %}

```java
public int furthestBuilding(int[] heights, int bricks, int ladders) {
    Queue<Integer> minHeap = new PriorityQueue<>();
    for(int i = 0; i < heights.length - 1; i++){
        int diff = heights[i + 1] - heights[i];
        if(diff <= 0) continue;
        minHeap.offer(diff);
        if(minHeap.size() > ladders) bricks -= minHeap.poll();
        if(bricks < 0) return i;
    }
    return heights.length - 1;
}
```
